CHAPTER ONE
School and Football
I was born an idiot - but I'm cleverer than people think. I can think things OK, but when 
I don't like bananas much. Only banana cake. I like that all right.
At first when I was growing up, I played with everybody. But then some boys hit me, and my
I went to an ordinary school for a year. Then the children started laughing and running aw
Then they put me into another kind of school, and there were some strange boys there. Some
One day I was walking home, and a car stopped next to me. The driver asked me my name, and
I told him about the idiot school.
'Do you ever play football?' he asked.
'No,' I told him. 'I see other people playing, but I don't play and they never ask me to p
'OK,' the man said.
Three days later, the man in the car came and got me out of school. Mom was there, and the
The man in the car took me and Mom to the new high school. There, an old man with grey hai
I began to play football with the high school team, and Coach Fellers helped me. And I wen
But there was a boy in the cafe who started calling me names, and saying things like, 'How
I saw that Coach Fellers was watching me. He had a strange look on his face, and he came a
We had our first game, and I was frightened. But they gave me the ball, and I ran over the
Then something happened which was not so good.
'I want to take Jenny Curran to the cinema,' I told Mom one day.
So she phoned Jenny's Mom and explained. Next evening, Jenny arrived at our house, wearing
The cinema was not far from our house. Jenny got the tickets, and we went inside. The film
I tried to put my hands in front of her, because there were people looking at us. Then two
Mom came to the police station. She was crying, and I knew that I was in trouble again. An
And the police said, 'That's OK with us. Just get out of town!'
So the next morning, Mom put some things into a suitcase for me, and put me on a bus. She 
CHAPTER TWO
Life at University
When we got to the university, Coach Bryant came to talk to us.
'Last man to get to the practice field will get a ride there on my shoe!' he shouted at us
The building that I went to live in was nice on the outside but not on the inside. Most of
'Mobile,' I told him.
'That's a stupid town!' he said.
And that was all of our conversation for several days.
On the practice field, things didn't start very well. I got the ball, but I ran the wrong 
But Coach Bryant called me across. 'Just get in the line and start catching the ball,' he 
And then I told him something that he didn't want to hear.
'They never taught me to catch a ball at high school,' I said. 'It was difficult enough fo
I don't think he was very pleased. But he started to teach me to catch.
I wanted my Mom, and I wanted to go home. I didn't like that place.
And Curtis was always angry, and I couldn't understand him. He had a car, and sometimes he
'If you're an idiot,' he said, angrily, 'how do you know how to do that?'
'Maybe I am an idiot,' I said, 'but I'm not stupid.'
Then Curtis ran after me, and called me all kinds of terrible names.
After that, I moved my bed to another room.
***
The first football game was on Saturday. I ran well, and we won 35 to 3. Everybody was ple
'I heard the game on the radio!' she said. 'I was so happy, I wanted to cry!'
That night, everybody went to parties, but nobody asked me to go. I went back to my room, 
His name was Bubba. He broke his foot in football practice and couldn't play in the game. 
After several minutes, Bubba was getting really excited and saying, 'Good, good, good!' Th
'I didn't learn anywhere,' I said.
When it got late, he told me to take the harmonica with me, and I played it for a long tim
Next day I took it back to Bubba.
'Keep it,' he said. 'I've got another one.'
I was really happy, and I went and sat under a tree and played all day.
It was late afternoon when I began to walk back to my room. Suddenly, I heard a voice shou
She had a big smile on her face, and she held my hand.
'I saw you play football yesterday,' she said. 'You were wonderful!'
She wasn't angry about the cinema, and she asked me to have a drink with her!
'I'm taking lessons in music, and I want to be a singer,' she told me. 'I play in a little
'OK,' I said.
CHAPTER THREE
The Big Game
On Friday night, I went to the Students' Centre. There were a lot of people there, and Jen
They played for about an hour, and I was lying back with my eyes closed, listening happily
Jenny stopped singing for a second or two, and the others in the group stopped playing. Th
Jenny came to see me. 'Forrest, where did you learn to play that thing?'
'I didn't learn anywhere,' I told her.
Well, after that, Jenny asked me to play with their group every Friday, and paid me $25 ev
***
The only other important thing that happened to me at the university was the Big Game at t
The game started, and the ball came to me. I took it - and ran straight into a group of bi
When they were winning 28 to 7, Coach Bryant called me across. 'Forrest,' he said, 'all ye
'OK, Coach,' I said.
And I did. Everybody was surprised to see that I could catch the ball. Suddenly it was 28 
But then things began to go wrong again. Weasel made a bad mistake - and then the game fin
Coach Bryant wasn't very happy. 'Well, boys,' he said, 'there's always next year.'
But not for me. I soon learned that.
***
I couldn't stay at the university. I wasn't clever enough at the lessons, and there was no
'I knew this would happen, Forrest,' he said. 'But I said to them.
"Just give me that boy in my team for a year!", and they did. And we had a good year - the
Bubba helped me to put my things in my suitcase, then he walked to the bus with me to say 
It was late when the bus got to Mobile. Mom knew that I was coming, but she was crying whe
'What's wrong?' I asked.
'A letter came,' she cried. 'You've got to go in the army!'
CHAPTER FOUR
Vietnam
After I left the idiot school, people were always shouting at me - Coach Fellers, Coach Br
Fort Benning was in Georgia. After about a hundred hours on a bus, me and a lot of other n
Then, and in the months to come, I just had to do the things that I was told to do. They t
One day, the cook was ill, and somebody said, 'Gump, you're going to be the cook today.'
'What am I going to cook?' I said. 'How do I cook?'
'It's easy,' said one of the men. 'Just put everything that you see in the food cupboard i
'Maybe it won't taste very good,' I said.
'Nothing does in this place!' he said. He was right.
Well, I got tins of tomatoes, some rice, apples, potatoes, and everything that I could fin
There are some pots in the cupboard,' he said. But the pots were only small.
'You've got to find something,' one of the other men said.
'What about this?' I asked. There was a big metal thing about six feet tall and five feet 
'That's the boiler. You can't cook anything in that.'
'Why not?' I asked. 'It's hot. It's got water in it.'
But the men had other things to do. 'Do what you like,' they said.
So I used the boiler.
I put everything in it, and after about an hour you could smell the cooking. It smelled OK
'Hurry up with that food, Gump! We're hungry!' they shouted.
Suddenly, the boiler began to shake and make noises - and then it blew up!
It blew the food all over us - me, and all the men who were sitting at the tables.
'Gump!' they screamed. 'You're an idiot!'
But I already knew that.
***
After a year, we went to Vietnam to fight in the war. One evening we went to have a shower
Then the ground began to blow up all round us!
We threw ourselves on to the floor of the shower hole, and somebody started screaming. It 
The enemy soldiers tried to blow us up for the next five nights, then it stopped. But it w
We went in helicopters, and there was smoke coming up out of the jungle when we got there.
And who do you think one of them was? It was Bubba!
Well, in between the shooting, Bubba told me about himself. His foot got too bad to play f
'What happened to Jenny Curran?' I asked.
'She left school and went off with a group of people who were against the war,' he said.
CHAPTER FIVE
Danger in the Jungle
There was a little valley between two hills. We were on one hill and the enemy was on the 
We found a place to put the gun and stayed there all night. We could hear shooting all rou
Suddenly, somebody started shooting at them! We couldn't see the enemy soldiers because th
The shooting was in front of us, which meant that the enemy soldiers were in between us an
We began to move back to the hill, but Doyle suddenly saw more enemy soldiers who were goi
There was no answer.
Two of them were dead, and Doyle was only just alive.
I picked up Doyle and put him across my shoulders, then I ran towards the hill. There were
I ran fast, shouting and screaming as loudly as I could. And suddenly I was in the middle 
***
The weeks went past slowly. I got a letter from my Mom, and I wrote back to her that every
Bubba and I decided that we would get a shrimp boat when we got home again, and catch shri
It started to rain one day, and it didn't stop for two months! But we still had to look fo
I looked round for Bubba, but he wasn't there. Then I heard that he was out in the rice fi
Halfway out, I saw another man who was hurt. He was holding a hand up to me - so I picked 
He looked up at me, and said, 'Forrest, why did this happen?' What could I say? Then he sa
There was still a lot of shooting going on, but I played a song. Then all the colour went 
And then he died.
And that's all I've got to say about that.
***
The rest of the night was terrible. The worst night that I've ever known. Nobody could get
During all of this, somebody shot me in the back of the leg, but I can't remember when it 
Then our helicopters came, and the enemy soldiers who were left ran away.
An hour later, I was out of there and on my way to the hospital in Danang.
CHAPTER SIX
The White House
I was at the hospital for two months. After the first few weeks my leg was getting better,
'Where do you get them?' I asked him.
He immediately started talking fast in a language that I couldn't understand, but he took 
Every day for the next few weeks, I went with Mr Chi (that was his name) and watched him w
Which I did!
Then one day I got back to the hospital and a Colonel Gooch said, 'Gump, we're going back 
***
There were about two thousand people waiting for us at San Francisco airport when we got o
The people ran after me - all two thousand of them! - but they couldn't catch me. I ran al
I went to look for Colonel Gooch, and I found him in the middle of a group of policemen. H
'Come on, Gump!' he said. 'The plane for Washington is waiting for us.'
The army sent a car to meet us at Washington airport, and we drove to a really nice hotel.
'People are different here,' he told me. 'They aren't like the people in California.'
He was wrong.
When we got there, he bought me a beer, and he was telling me about the President and my m
'Get us two more drinks, please,' he said.
She looked at him and said, 'I won't get you anything - not as much as a glass of warm riv
Well, after that we went back to the hotel.
***
Next morning we got up early and went to the White House, where the President lives. It's 
A lot of army people were there, and they immediately started shaking my hand and telling 
The President was a great big old man who talked like somebody from Texas, and there were 
Then an army man started to read something, and everybody listened. Everybody but me, beca
I was just thinking of getting out of there and having some breakfast when the President s
The President asked me a lot of questions about Vietnam and the army, but I just said, 'Ye
'Do you want to watch TV?' the President asked suddenly.
So me and the President of America watched TV while I ate my breakfast!
Later, when we were back in the garden, the President said, 'You were hurt, weren't you, b
So I pulled down my trousers, turned round and showed him.
Well, lots of newspaper men started taking photographs before Colonel Gooch could run acro
That afternoon, back at the hotel, he came to my room shouting and throwing newspapers on 
'Gump, you idiot!' shouted Colonel Gooch.
'Yes, sir,' I said. 'That's what I am. But I just try to do the right thing.'
CHAPTER SEVEN
Meeting Jenny Again
Soon after that, I heard that I was leaving the army early, and they gave me some money fo
But all this time, I was thinking about Jenny Curran. Just before I left the hospital in D
I tried to walk to the Hodaddy Club from the train station, but I lost my way, so I took a
'Can I wait?' I asked.
'OK,' he said.
So I sat down and waited for five or six hours.
Students began to come in, most of them wearing dirty jeans. The men had beards, and the w
And then Jenny came on!
She was different. Her hair was all the way down her back, and she was wearing sun-glasses
Later, I went outside and walked round for about half an hour, then went back. There were 
I could hear the music that was playing inside and, after a minute or two, I began playing
'Who is that playing the harmonica?' she said. And then she saw me. 'Forrest Gump!' And sh
***
We talked together until it was time for her to sing again.
'I didn't leave school,' said Jenny. 'They threw me out after they found a boy in my room 
'Where do you live?' I asked.
'With my boyfriend,' she said. 'He's a student. You can come back and stay with us tonight
The boyfriend's name was Rudolph. He was a little man, and he was sitting on the floor wit
'Rudolph, this is Forrest,' Jenny said. 'He's a friend of mine from home, and he's going t
Rudolph didn't speak or open his eyes, but he put up his hand and smiled.
Next morning, when I got up, Rudolph was still sitting on the floor with his eyes shut.
That afternoon, Jenny took me to meet the other people in the group, and that night I bega
Then one day I came back to the flat and Jenny was sitting on the floor.
'Where's Rudolph?' I asked.
'Gone,' she said. 'Walked out, like all the others.' And then she started to cry.
'Don't cry, Jenny,' I said. And I put my arm round her.
Well, it started like that. But the next minute we were kissing and making love! And when 
CHAPTER EIGHT
Into Space
Spring and summer went by, and I continued to play my harmonica with the group. It was my 
How did it happen? I don't know. But one night I was sitting outside the Hodaddy Club, smo
Suddenly, the door opened behind me, and there was Jenny.
'Forrest, it's time to -' She stopped when she saw me with the girl. Then she said, 'Oh, n
I jumped up and pushed the girl away. 'Jenny!' I said.
'Stay away from me, Forrest!' she said. 'You men are all the same! Just stay away from me!
She didn't speak to me again that night. And the next morning she told me to find another 
I went to live with Moses, one of the other men in the group, and soon after that Jenny we
So I went back to Washington, too.
There was a lot of trouble there. Police were everywhere, and people were shouting and thr
And the police were taking some of them away.
I went to find Jenny's address, but there was nobody at home. I waited outside for most of
I started to walk towards her, but she turned and walked away. The other people - two men 
'What's wrong with her?' I asked one of the two men.
'She just got out of prison,' he said. 'She was there all night before we could get her ou
Jenny was in the back of the car now, so I went over and talked to her through the window.
The others were talking about something that would happen the next day. Some American sold
Suddenly Jenny said, 'Did you know that Forrest won a medal?'
The others went quiet and looked at me, then looked at Jenny.
***
Next morning, Jenny came into the living-room. I was sleeping on the floor of their house.
'Forrest,' she said. 'I want you to do something for me.'
'What?' I said.
I want you to come with us today, and I want you to wear your army clothes.'
'Why?' I asked.
'Because you're going to do something to stop all the killing in Vietnam.'
You can guess what I had to do, can't you? I had to throw away my medal with the other Ame
But it got me into more trouble. Oh, I threw my medal away, OK - but it hit somebody reall
Why do things like that always happen to me?
***
As it happened, I didn't stay in prison long, because they soon realized that I was an idi
'You're just the kind of person that they're looking for!' the doctors told me.
I soon understood why! NASA sent me on a journey into space with a woman and an ape! Me, a
All kinds of things went wrong because of that ape. Instead of coming down in the sea when
CHAPTER NINE
A Real Idiot
Of course, the first thing that I wanted to do when I got back to America was find Jenny. 
'The Broken Eggs group has broken up,' he told me. 'I don't know what happened to Jenny. I
'Do you have a telephone number, or anything?' I asked.
'It's an old number,' he said, 'but perhaps she's still there.'
I phoned the number, and she wasn't.
'Jenny Curran?' a man's voice said. 'She went to Indianapolis. Got a job at the Temperer f
So I went to Indianapolis on the bus.
***
The Temperer factory was outside the town. I asked about Jenny at the office, and the woma
A lot of people came out at lunch-time. Then Jenny came out. She went and sat under a tree
A minute later, I had my arms round her and we were both crying. People were watching us w
'I finish work in three hours, Forrest,' Jenny said. 'Why don't you wait for me in that ba
So I waited in the bar.
And I got into the wrestling business. How? I'll tell you.
It started when I arm-wrestled a man in the bar, and won some money on a bet. That gave me
She came across to the bar after work, and we had a drink and talked.
'I saw you on TV when you went up into space, Forrest,' she said.
And I told her all about that, and about Sue, the ape.
'What happened to him?' she asked.
'I don't know,' I said. 'But he was a good friend.'
Later, we went back to Jenny's flat, and she said, 'You can stay here.'
Next day, when Jenny went to work, I went back to the bar. Several people wanted to try ar
After about a month, I was winning nearly two hundred dollars a week, arm-wrestling. Then 
'You can make a lot more money,' he told me.
'How?' I asked.
'Wrestling. Real wrestling,' he said. 'I can teach you.'
To make a long story short - he did.
Jenny wasn't happy about the wrestling but I won a lot of money - sometimes by winning fig
Jenny got really angry. 'It isn't honest,' she said.
I didn't listen. I bet all my money on myself to win - and then I lost the fight.
But there was worse to come. When I got back to the flat, Jenny was gone, and there was a 
Dear Forrest
You're doing something bad tonight. It isn't honest, and I cannot go on with you like this
I am crying while I write this, but please don't try to find me.
Goodbye, my dear. love, Jenny
And for the first time ever, I knew that I was a real idiot.
CHAPTER TEN
Money for Playing Games
I decided to go home to Mobile, but the bus stopped at Nashville on the way and I went int
I was just walking out again when I saw a little old man who was playing chess with himsel
He didn't look up but, after a minute, he said, 'Perhaps you're right.'
It was time for me to get back to the bus station, but when I started to leave, the old ma
'I can't,' I said. 'I have to catch a bus.'
So he waved at me with his hand, and I went back to the bus station.
But I missed the bus that evening, and there wasn't another one until the next day. So I w
It took me an hour to win that chess game.
'Just who are you?' he said after the game.
'Forrest Gump,' I said.
'Where did you learn to play chess?' he asked.
'In the jungle,' I told him.
He looked surprised. 'Aren't you in the tournament?' he asked.
