The Hunger Games
The Hunger Games 1by Suzanne Collins
PART I"THE TRIBUTES"
1.
When I wake up, the other side of the bed is cold. My fingers stretch out, seeki
they tell me. Sitting at Prims knees, guarding her, is the worlds ugliest cat. M
usually safe to touch. Even so, I always take a moment to listen carefully for t
been loose for years. There are several other weak spots in the fence, but this 
muscles in my face relaxing, my pace quickening as I climb the hills to our plac
overlooking a valley. A thicket of berry bushes protects it from unwanted eyes. 
caters to officials, Peacekeepers, and the occasional Seam customer. They ran an
try to forgive her for my fathers sake. But to be honest, Im not the forgiving t
twelve-year-old, and although he was only two years older, he already looked lik
and try to figure out how they will survive the painful weeks to come. We make o
a particular fondness for them and can afford our price. The mayors daughter, Ma
She puts the money for the berries in my hand. Good luck, Katniss. You, too, I s
reaping twenty times. Gale, who is eighteen and has been either helping or singl
pretty, he says flatly. At home, I find my mother and sister are ready to go. My
past are very precious to her. Of course. Lets put your hair up, too, she says. 
oldest in the front, the young ones, like Prim, toward the back. Family members 
given on their ages, whether theyre Seam or merchant, if they will break down an
The last tribute standing wins. Taking the kids from our districts, forcing them
the glass ball with the girls names. She reaches in, digs her hand deep into the
not me, that its not me. Effie Trinket crosses back to the podium, smoothes the 
2.
One time, when I was in a blind in a tree, waiting motionless for game to wander
District 12 hasnt had a volunteer in decades and the protocol has become rusty. 
sister, as he presented her, the oldest child, with a medal of valor. A medal fo
one can help loving. So instead of acknowledging applause, I stand there unmovin
camera. Is he addressing the audience or is he so drunk he might actually be tau
to continue, Haymitch plummets off the stage and knocks himself unconscious. Hes
for Gales safety when shes reading the name. Peeta Mellark. Peeta Mellark! Oh, n
killed in the mine accident three months earlier in the bitterest January anyone
chair or, more often, huddled under the blankets on her bed, eyes fixed on some 
Because if it had become known that my mother could no longer care for us, the d
lying in the Meadow, you hear the wails from a house, and the Peacekeepers are c
wanted those clothes. I couldnt go home. Because at home was my mother with her 
the edge of the woods after the coal had run out, my bands empty of any hope. I 
how sick she was of having those brats from the Seam pawing through her trash. T
Why not? No one decent will buy burned bread! He began to tear off chunks from t
toss them into the trough, and the front bakery bell rung and the mother disappe
but the insides were still warm. When I dropped them on the table, Prims hands r
away. I dropped my gaze, embarrassed, and thats when I saw it. The first dandeli
had thanked him at some point, Id be feeling less conflicted now. I thought abou
face the crowd as the anthem of Panem plays. Oh, well, I think. There will be tw
3.
The moment the anthem ends, we are taken into custody. I dont mean were handcuff
cameras at the train station. My sister and my mother come first. I reach out to
and trading, and staying in school, I turn to my mother and grip her arm, hard. 
who know twenty different ways to kill you with a knife. Oh, therell be people l
