The Hunger Games
The Hunger Games 1by Suzanne Collins
PART I"THE TRIBUTES"
1.
When I wake up, the other side of the bed is cold. My fingers stretch out, seeking Prims w
they tell me. Sitting at Prims knees, guarding her, is the worlds ugliest cat. Mashed-in n
usually safe to touch. Even so, I always take a moment to listen carefully for the hum tha
been loose for years. There are several other weak spots in the fence, but this one is so 
muscles in my face relaxing, my pace quickening as I climb the hills to our place, a rock 
overlooking a valley. A thicket of berry bushes protects it from unwanted eyes. The sight 
caters to officials, Peacekeepers, and the occasional Seam customer. They ran an apothecar
try to forgive her for my fathers sake. But to be honest, Im not the forgiving type. Gale 
twelve-year-old, and although he was only two years older, he already looked like a man. I
and try to figure out how they will survive the painful weeks to come. We make out well. T
a particular fondness for them and can afford our price. The mayors daughter, Madge, opens
She puts the money for the berries in my hand. Good luck, Katniss. You, too, I say, and th
reaping twenty times. Gale, who is eighteen and has been either helping or single-handedly
pretty, he says flatly. At home, I find my mother and sister are ready to go. My mother we
past are very precious to her. Of course. Lets put your hair up, too, she says. I let her 
oldest in the front, the young ones, like Prim, toward the back. Family members line up ar
given on their ages, whether theyre Seam or merchant, if they will break down and weep. Mo
The last tribute standing wins. Taking the kids from our districts, forcing them to kill o
the glass ball with the girls names. She reaches in, digs her hand deep into the ball, and
not me, that its not me. Effie Trinket crosses back to the podium, smoothes the slip of pa
2.
One time, when I was in a blind in a tree, waiting motionless for game to wander by, I doz
District 12 hasnt had a volunteer in decades and the protocol has become rusty. The rule i
sister, as he presented her, the oldest child, with a medal of valor. A medal for her fath
one can help loving. So instead of acknowledging applause, I stand there unmoving while th
camera. Is he addressing the audience or is he so drunk he might actually be taunting the 
to continue, Haymitch plummets off the stage and knocks himself unconscious. Hes disgustin
for Gales safety when shes reading the name. Peeta Mellark. Peeta Mellark! Oh, no, I think
killed in the mine accident three months earlier in the bitterest January anyone could rem
chair or, more often, huddled under the blankets on her bed, eyes fixed on some point in t
Because if it had become known that my mother could no longer care for us, the district wo
lying in the Meadow, you hear the wails from a house, and the Peacekeepers are called in t
wanted those clothes. I couldnt go home. Because at home was my mother with her dead eyes 
the edge of the woods after the coal had run out, my bands empty of any hope. I found myse
how sick she was of having those brats from the Seam pawing through her trash. The words w
Why not? No one decent will buy burned bread! He began to tear off chunks from the burned 
toss them into the trough, and the front bakery bell rung and the mother disappeared to he
but the insides were still warm. When I dropped them on the table, Prims hands reached to 
away. I dropped my gaze, embarrassed, and thats when I saw it. The first dandelion of the 
had thanked him at some point, Id be feeling less conflicted now. I thought about it a cou
face the crowd as the anthem of Panem plays. Oh, well, I think. There will be twenty-four 
3.
The moment the anthem ends, we are taken into custody. I dont mean were handcuffed or anyt
cameras at the train station. My sister and my mother come first. I reach out to Primand s
and trading, and staying in school, I turn to my mother and grip her arm, hard. Listen to 
who know twenty different ways to kill you with a knife. Oh, therell be people like me, to
isnt around because hes so much nicer. I feel certain he would never have hit his son the 
have just said goodbye to his son. He pulls a white paper package from his jacket pocket a
or evasive, instead theres an urgency about her tone that surprises me. They let you wear 
year there were only horrible spiked maces that the tributes had to bludgeon one another t
players freeze to death at night. You could hardly see them because they were just huddled
practice, he says. You know how to kill. Not people, I say. How different can it be, reall
well for a girl, Johanna Mason, from District 7 a few years back. She seemed like such a s
was built in a place once called the Rockies. District 12 was in a region known is
Appalachia. Even hundreds of years ago, they mined coal here. Which is why our miners have
around it. The bird is connected to the ring only by its wing tips. I suddenly recognize i
with multiple verses, if you had the patience to sing them and if they liked your voice. M
pause, theyd always sing back. Not everyone is treated with such respect. But whenever my 
exhausting day, says Effie Trinket. I think shes relieved by Haymitchs absence, and who ca
stomachs is used to such rich fare. But if I can hold down Greasy Saes concoction of mice 
monstrous boy who lunges forward to volunteer from District 2. A fox-faced girl with sleek
volunteer. You cant miss the desperation in my voice as I shove Prim behind me, as if Im a
Haymitch staggers into the compartment. I miss supper? he says in a slurred voice. Then he
4.
For a few moments, Peeta and I take in the scene of our mentor trying to rise out of the s
and turn the shower on him. He hardly notices. Its okay, Peeta says to me. Ill take it fro
help feeling a little grateful since the last thing I want to do is strip down Haymitch, w
Not where were going. So I decide, from this moment on, to have as little as possible to d
made of old parchment and covered in ink drawings of plants. Neat handwritten blocks told 
retrieved the small bow and arrows hed made me from a hollow tree. I probably didnt go mor
gathered. Then she acted confused and went back to bed, but when the stew was done, we mad
father at my side, but people had respected him, and they accepted me. Game was game after
That night, we feasted on fish and Katniss roots until we were all, for the first
time in months, full. Slowly, my mother returned to us. She began to clean and cook and pr
the curtains when the rapping rouses me. I hear Effie Trinkets voice, calling me to rise. 
womans head. What thoughts fill her waking hours? What dreams come to her at night? I have
back a glass of red juice that he keeps thinning with a clear liquid from a bottle. Judgin
either because theyre betting on them or simply for the bragging rights of picking a winne
across the room. I was actually just hoping to get a good solid stick, but it lodges in th
hands of your stylists. Youre not going to like what they do to you. But no matter what it
a rainbow of hues that tower into the air, the shiny cars that roll down the wide paved st
his death. He is already fighting hard to stay alive. Which also means that kind Peeta Mel
fighting hard to kill me.
5.
R-i-i-i-p! I grit my teeth as Venia, a woman with aqua hair and gold tattoos above her eye
and intensely vulnerable. But I have kept my side of the bargain with Haymitch, and no obj
theyre sincerely trying to help me. I look at the cold white walls and floor and resist th
eyeliner that has been applied with a light hand. It brings out the flecks of gold in his 
assembling this meal myself back home. Chickens are too expensive, but I could make do wit
pudding, I cant even guess whats in it. Days of hunting and gathering for this one meal an
and red and the matching headpiece that define this costume. Cinna plans to light them on 
the Games begin. The tributes from District 1 ride out in a chariot pulled by snow-white h
no time at all, we are approaching the door and I can see that between the overcast sky an
Katniss. The girl who was on fire. For the first time, I feel a flicker of hope rising up 
down at our linked fingers as I loosen my grasp, but he regains his grip on me. No, dont l
for keeping hold of me. I was getting a little shaky there, says Peeta. It didnt show, I t
6.
The Training Center has a tower designed exclusively for the tributes and their teams. Thi
family. But thats a dark and creaky thing that moves like a snail and smells of sour milk.
tell me your strategies. But Ive done my best with what I had to work with. How Katniss sa
a current through my scalp, untangling, parting, and drying my hair almost instantly. It f
to see the stylists, particularly after I hear that Haymitch will be joining us. A meal pr
disapproval is so high I could never admit it. No, I guess not, I just I stammer, and the 
Imagine finding her lookalike here. Hes asking for an explanation, and Im tempted to give 
help me figure out her story. Gale would be my first choice, but its unlikely Ill ever see
theyve built a garden with flower beds and potted trees. From the branches
hang hundreds of wind chimes, which account for the tinkling I heard. Here in the garden, 
bombs. They show it on television occasionally, just to remind us. Or why they would leave
out. Then he looks around nervously. It was loud enough to hear above the chimes. He laugh
finger. Just like I was watching the Games. I kick off my shoes and climb under the covers
7.
My slumbers are filled with disturbing dreams. The face of the redheaded girl intertwines 
explodes into a million deadly bits of light. Dawn is breaking through the windows. The Ca
As I gorge myself, I watch the sun rise over the Capitol. I have a second plate of hot gra
face-to-face makes me queasy. I turn the roll I have just taken from the basket over and o
anything, says Peeta. Unless you count baking bread. Sorry, I dont. Katniss. I already kno
good-bye, as if to cheer me up, she says maybe District Twelve will finally have a winner.
know he remembers that day, too. But he just shrugs. People will help you in the arena. Th
that day long ago in the rain. Its such a joke! Peeta and I going along pretending to be f
were bitter adversaries. Which Id be prepared to do right now if it wasnt for Haymitchs st
meat and plants from the woods combined with the exertion it took
to get them have given me a healthier body than most of those I see around me. The excepti
and New Years Day. When were in the square, Prim always drags me over to admire them, alth
include types from the districts along with the refined bread of the Capitol. The fish-sha
ask. No, but it sounds fascinating, says Peeta. I try and animate my face as I recall the 
Cinna and Portia arent around, so theres no one to add any sanity to the meals. Not that H
about being sure to throw the weights. The words come out of my mouth without permission. 
the dummy by a couple of inches and lose what little attention I had been commanding. For 
straight toward the exit without being dismissed.
8.
As I stride toward the elevator, I fling my bow to one side and my quiver to the other. I 
cheeks. I can hear the others calling me from the sitting room, but I fly down the hall in
at being ignored. I wasnt trying to kill one of them. If I were, theyd be dead! Oh, what d
call me to dinner, I decide I may as well go. The scores will be televised tonight. Its no
but its still red and splotchy. Everyones waiting at the table, even Cinna and Portia. I w
What were their faces like? I can feel the edges of my mouth tilting up. Shocked. Terrifie
backward into a bowl of punch. Haymitch guffaws and we all start laughing except Effie, al
mean for the other? I escape to my room as quickly as possible and burrow down under the c
littler things, having a partner lightened the load, could even make the arduous task of f
disengaging the rabbit from the snare. He had another three hanging from his belt. Katniss
me. Well, theres some room for improvement there. And then hed give me a smile and Id retu
separately.
9.
Betrayal.
Thats the first thing I feel, which is ludicrous. For there to be betrayal, there would ha
redheaded Avox girl, who insisted Haymitch know my hunting skills . . . Was there some par
Haymitch takes me into the
sitting room, directs me to the couch, and then just frowns at me for a while. What? I fin
Twelve has done this well. The whole things been more than you ever could have dreamed of.
session, I am no one at all. Haymitch started drinking somewhere around witty, and a nasty
can make me look so wonderful, no one will care what comes out of my mouth. The team works
the pair Effie had me practice in. Theres some adjusting and fidgeting. Then silence. Can 
prep team adores you. You even won over the Gamemakers. And as for the citizens of the Cap
Too soon its time to go. The interviews take place on a stage constructed in front of the
Training Center. Once I leave my room, it will be only minutes until Im in front of the cr
else is before I go up. Plus, the audience will start to get bored, just as the Gamemakers
younger and thinner. In District 12, looking old is something of an achievement since so m
bleeding. Caesar tells a few jokes to warm up the audience but then gets down to business.
sponsors are at least considering him. If I had any money, Id bet on him myself. And then 
standing and making my way center stage. I shake Caesars outstretched hand, and he has the
think it was a first. The cameras are right on the Gamemakers, who are chuckling and noddi
balcony. Im not supposed to talk about it, right? The Gamemaker who fell in the punch bowl
encouragingly. I dont think its going to work out. Winning . . . Wont help in my case, say
PART II"THE GAMES"
10.
For a moment, the cameras hold on Peetas downcast eyes as what he says sinks in. Then I ca
I slam my palms into his chest. He loses his balance and crashes into an ugly urn filled w
something you could never achieve on your own. He made me look weak! I say. He made you lo
Now they all do. Youre all theyre talking about. The star-crossed lovers from District Twe
edge. Haymitch is right. I survived my interview, but what was I really? A silly girl spin
take our places. But then Peeta is bleeding too heavily, and Portia
leads him off for medical treatment. We start the cream and rose-petal soup without them. 
here, theyll be at the Games Headquarters, hopefully madly signing up our sponsors, workin
talk to Portia. Im glad. Whatever strange words of parting we exchange can wait until tomo
keep them as reminder of who I am to the audience. Katniss, the girl who was on fire. Perh
quickly without them. But what will the climate be like? What traps have the Gamemakers hi
not? My feet move soundlessly across the tiles. Im only yard behind him when I say, You sh
Games anyway. Thats no way to be thinking, I say. Why not? Its true. My best hope is to no
me in there. Turn me into some kind of monster that Im not. I bite my lip feeling inferior
Count on it, I say. Then I turn and leave the roof. I spend the rest of the night slipping
rungs and instantly it's as if I'm frozen. Some sort of current glues me to the ladder whi
to the ladder, only this time it leads down into a tube underground, into the catacombs th
home. These have a narrow flexible rubber sole with treads though. Good for running. I thi
taking it off my mothers dress, pinning it to the shirt. Its your district token, right? I
find myself gnawing on the inside of my cheek. It still hasnt fully healed from a few days
me out of the cylinder, into the open air. For a moment, my eyes are dazzled by the bright
11.
Sixty seconds. Thats how long were required to stand on our metal circles before the sound
the things that will give us life here in the arena. Food, containers of water, weapons, m
the girls in our school although a couple can beat me in distance races. But this forty-ya
feet shuffle for a moment, confused at the direction my brain wants to take and then I lun
pack over one shoulder and run full-speed for the woods. I can hear the blade whistling to
theres one rabbit, there could be hundreds just waiting to be snared. The ground slopes do
through the woods isnt much to look at. But theyll show me enough to let people know Im al
carefully lay out the provisions. One thin black sleeping bag that reflects body heal. A p
bottle with a cap for carrying water that's bone dry. No water. How hard would it have bee
branches close to
the trunk, and find a sturdy fork for my bed. It takes some doing, but I arrange the sleep
myself to explain the conflicting emotions that arise when I think of Peeta. The gratitude
help feeling glad. That makes ten of us. The other three Ill figure out tomorrow. Now when
The sky is still dark, but I can feel the first signs of dawn approaching. Im beginning to
Tributes from Districts 1, 2, and 4. Two boys and three girls. The ones who lunched togeth
12.
Thank goodness, I had the foresight to belt myself in. Ive rolled sideways off the fork an
was playing just one more game with me. But this will be his last. I will eagerly watch th
now, says Peeta. Just then, the cannon fires. Ready to move on? The Career pack sets off a
branches, it has probably been difficult for the cameras to get a good shot of me. I know 
what that means! Im about to take off when I think of my snares. Maybe its imprudent to ch
back to her camp. Sure enough, the coals of her dying fire are still hot. I cut up the rab
dynamic. Or has he? Maybe, since he hasnt spoken much about me, we can still get some mile
help. I spot a cluster of berry bushes and hurry to strip the fruit, to suck the
sweet juices from the skins. But just as Im holding them to my lips, I get a hard look at 
back to finish off. My fear of the Career pack is minor compared to my burning thirst. Bes
be betting on me as well. Perhaps Haymitch doesnt realize how deep my need is. I say in a 
Am I deluded about having sponsors? Or has Peetas behavior made them all hang back? No, I 
the years of watching tributes starve, freeze, bleed, and dehydrate to death. Unless there
intention of helping me at all. This is all right, I think. This is not so bad here. The a
the stampede of feet shakes me from slumber. I look around in bewilderment. Its not yet da
13.
My first impulse is to scramble from the tree, but Im belted in. Somehow my fumbling finge
smoldering as it is, I take the risk of shoving it in my sleeping bag, hoping the lack of 
Where are the Gamemakers driving me? Back to the lake? To a whole new terrain filled with 
end and it wont burn indefinitely. Not because the Gamemakers couldnt keep it fueled but b
loses meaning now as I frantically try to dodge the attacks. I cant see where theyre being
again. This time its an acidic substance that scalds my throat and makes its way into my n
this time. The fireball crashes into the ground at my side, but not before it skids across
set off by the fireball. My calf is screaming, my hands covered in red welts. Im shaking t
with its stinking black clouds. Another light, daylight, begins to softly emerge. Swirls o
pool for a while, dangling my hands in the water, examining the little flames on
my fingernails that are beginning to chip off. Good. Ive had enough fire for a lifetime. I
at the sight of my calf. The flesh is a brilliant red covered with blisters. I force mysel
I force myself to nibble on a cracker, which helps settle my stomach. I roll up my sleepin
a foot of the back beyond repair. I cut off the damaged area leaving me with a garment tha
flying into the underbrush. My leg slows me down, but I sense my pursuers are not as speed
the crowd will love it. Well enough, says the boy from District 2. Yourself? Its been a bi
of his shirt. No, says Cato, pushing away the bow. Ill do better with my sword. I can see 
when he gets back to his feet, swearing like a fiend. The girl with the arrows, Glimmer I 
moaning. The heat of the bags too much for my leg. I cut a slash in the fabric and hang my
shortly before I did, hearing the pack was so close. For a while we hold each others gaze.
points to something above my head.
14.
My eyes follow the line of her finger up into the foliage above me. At first, I have no id
sting that raises a lump the size of a plum on contact. Most people cant tolerate more tha
cut it free. Ill have to saw off the branch at the trunk and send the whole thing down. Th
anthem. That could begin any time. I drag myself out of my bag, make sure my knife is secu
more than I can handle. I grit my teeth and saw away occasionally glancing at the sky to r
not one but many sponsors have contributed to buy this one tiny pot. To me, it is priceles
I apply another coat of medicine and quietly pack up my gear. Whatever happens, Im going t
can see the Career pack and Peeta asleep on the ground. By her position, leaning up agains
gleam of a tracker jacker lazily making its way across the papery gray surface. No questio
identified me before the nest went down. The rest of the insects have targeted their enemi
After about five minutes, I drag myself onto the rocks. People have not exaggerated the ef
limbs three times their normal size. The stinger lumps have begun to explode, spewing putr
in my hands and I fall back on the ground. Is this real? Or have the hallucinations begun?
Glimmers body, get a hold on what must be her rib cage, and force her onto her stomach. I 
Behind him, Cato slashes his way through the brush. Hes sparkling wet, too, and badly stun
it might be me. I trip and fall into a small pit lined with tiny orange bubbles that hum l
15. I enter a nightmare from which I wake repeatedly only to find a greater terror awaitin
and watch a beetle crawl up the side of a honeysuckle bush. How long have I been out? It w
Gale but of Peeta and . . .
Peeta! He saved my life! I think. Because by the time we met up, I couldnt tell what was r
weapons give me an entirely new perspective on the Games. I know I have tough opponents le
direction, hoping my enemies still lie locked in the surreal world of tracker jacker venom
wait for my water to purify I strip down to my underclothes and wade into the mild current
action. Im traveling uphill now, which I prefer, with a source of fresh water not only for
trying to decide. You hungry? I can see her swallow hard, her eye flickering to the meat. 
them. My mother would use other methods, but its not like we have a lot of options. After 
Lucky you had the sense to pull the stingers out or youd be a lot worse. Do my neck! Do my
we fill our stomachs. The groosling has delicious meal thats so fatty, the grease drips do
mayor, Madges father, doesnt seem to have much taste for such events. Maybe being the leas
seems a better choice all the time. We divide up our food supplies, so in case were separa
girl, one of Greasy Saes grandkids, who wanders around the Hob. Shes not quite right, but 
down. I give Rue some matches and she makes sure I have plenty of leaves in case my stings
girls from Districts One and Four are dead. Theres ten of us left. Something strange happe
yourself. Can they? I ask. They dont need to. They have all those supplies, Rue says. Say 
16.
Rue has decided to trust me wholeheartedly. I know this because as soon as the anthem fini
would have had to do was disappear from that tree without pointing out the tracker jacker 
The skys streaked with light, the birds already chattering. Rue perches in a branch across
How? You can see the glint of excitement in her eyes. In this way, shes exactly the opposi
him easily, says Rue. And the foods just out in the open? I say. She nods. Somethings not 
Besides, I have this. She pulls a necklace woven out of some kind of grass from her shirt.
to it. Before I leave, I make sure Rues well stocked with food and matches. I even insist 
Patches of the sweet berries. A bush with the leaves that healed my stings. Clusters of tr
and there, the black-and-white flash of a mockingjay wing in the branches high over my hea
possibilities are endless. While I am mulling over my options, I hear Cato shout out. Hes 
that Rue must have set the first campfire. Wed made sure to gather enough green wood to ma
sometimes risking a few steps. At one point, she launches up in the air, over a small barr
pack, taking a few items from a variety of containers, crackers from a crate, a handful of
dropped her token, a small wooden ball, while she was at her plate, and they literally had
bins, the crates, too heavy to topple over with an arrow. Maybe one contains cooking oil, 
17.
The impact with the hard-packed earth of the plain knocks the wind out of me.
My backpack does little to soften the blow. Fortunately my quiver has caught in the crook 
one that was turned toward the blast, and it comes away bloody. Have I gone deaf from the 
fingers. That should help soak up the blood. I cant walk, but can I crawl? I move forward 
the base of the trees when theres Cato, barreling onto the plain, soon followed by his com
Its that quick. The death of the boy from District 3. The other two Careers seem to be try
the horizon. Night falls. Up in the sky, I see the seal and know the anthem must have begu
tree branch for a torch, illuminating the grim determination on all their faces. The Caree
of us. Although from what Cato said, Peetas on his way out. Not that Cato is the final wor
the lake and freeze. The laughs distorted, but the fact that it registered at all means I 
hurry, loaded bow in one hand, a hunk of cold groosling in the other, because Im famished 
the injured side, as my right ear tries to compensate for the wall of nothingness where ye
undisturbed. Theres no sign of Rue, not on the ground or in the trees. This is odd. By now
Particularly the decadent dishes served in the Capitol. The chicken in creamy orange sauce
where she set the third fire and see if there are any clues to her whereabouts. Before I g
singing to them, and recently. Otherwise theyd have taken up some other song. My eyes lift
18.
The boy from District 1 dies before he can pull out the spear. My arrow drives deeply into
halves the brief remainder of his life by yanking out the arrow and drowning in his own bl
to her, pulling her head onto my lap. I gently brush the dark, thick hair back behind her 
Deep in the meadow, under the willowA bed of grass, a soft green pillowLay down your head,
Rues eyes have fluttered shut. Her chest moves but only slightly. My throat releases the t
Deep in the meadow, hidden far awayA cloak of leaves, a moonbeam rayForget your woes and l
Here its safe, here its warmHere the daisies guard you from every harm
The final lines are barely audible.
Here your dreams are sweet and tomorrow brings them trueHere is the place where I love you
Everythings still and quiet. Then, almost eerily, the mockingjays take up my song. For a m
Theres no way to take revenge on the Capitol. Is there? Then I remember Peetas words on th
direction. Then I walk away without looking back. The birds fall silent. Somewhere, a mock
things that humans cant. I pause, my eyes focused on whats ahead, not whats happening behi
sunlight. My thanks to the people of District Eleven, I say. I want them to know I know wh
the bread still locked in my hands, I fall asleep at once. Sometimes when things are parti
hungry? I can only hope the other Careers traveled so lightly when it came to food and now
waiting right here. Who knows where the Careers are now? Either too far to reach me or too
Winning. Its not just having the arrows or outsmarting the Careers a few times, although t
call for my blood. Maybe he had a girlfriend who really believed he would come back . . . 
and sometimes theres nothing but a loaf of stale bread for the tributes to compete for. I 
PART III"THE VICTOR"
19.I clap my hands over my mouth, but the sound has already escaped. The sky goes black an
thanks to me. All Ive done is managed not to kill Peeta. But whatever hes done
in the arena, he must have the audience convinced it was to keep me alive. Shaking his hea
ones left who benefit from it besides Peeta and myself. Do I run from them now, on the cha
try to think of anything Peeta ever said that might give me an indication as to where hes 
sword drawn. And after I was gone, he wounded Peeta. But how did Peeta get away? Maybe hed
current and erase any tracks. He might even be able to get a fish or two. Well, its a plac
begin to feel somewhat trapped. It would be no small matter to escape the stream now. Figh
with a few threads of fabric glued to it, but no sign of life. I break down and say his na
sweetheart? My eyes peruse the bank, but theres nothing. Just mud, the plants, the base of
Up high, he answers. Lets get you in the stream, wash you off so I can see what kind of wo
going to roll you into the stream. Its very shallow here, okay? I say. Excellent, he says.
until hes in the water. On three, I say. One, two, three! I can only manage one full roll 
some pain, before I tackle whatever damage Cato did to his leg. Since treating his wounds 
can do is to get him to eat a few bits of dried apple. Thanks. Im much better, really. Can
Katniss? he asks. Soon, I promise. I need to look at your leg first. Trying to be as gentl
First thing is to clean it well. Ive left on Peetas undershorts because theyre not in bad 
draw out infection, so I start with those. Within minutes of pressing the handful of chewe
innocently. I . . . Im no good at this. Im not my mother. Ive no idea what Im doing and I 
ointment on it. I think it helps with infection anyway. And wrap it up? I say. I do and th
shoulder. Peeta, weve got to go now. Go? He seems confused. Go where? Away from here. Down
ally is shot. Paper white, panting, and, even though its only just cooling off, hes shiver
when hes not noticing, but he refuses to eat even the fruit. Then he just lies there, his 
evening air just as the parachute floats down from the sky. My fingers quickly undo the ti
20.
Getting the broth into Peeta takes an hour of coaxing, begging, threatening, and yes, kiss
groosling and roots while I watch the daily report in the sky. No new casualties. Still, P
fever? Take him out and hope the night air cools him off? I end up just dampening a strip 
says. Yes, theres just them and us and Thresh and Foxface, I say. Thats what I nicknamed t
berry mush I feed him. He refuses the groosling again, though. You didnt sleep, Peeta says
case I have to shoot at a moments notice. Peeta sits beside me, leaning against the wall, 
more pus in evidence, but the swelling has increased and the tight shiny skin is inflamed.
soup, I say. Dont light a fire, he says. Its not worth it. Well see, I say. As I take the 
Gamemakers are progressively ratcheting up the temperature in the daytime and sending it p
At least three of them, Cato, Clove, and Foxface, had been relying on it. Probably not Thr
Because my words are going out all over Panem. And while people have no doubt put two and 
or Greasy Sae or the butcher or even the Peacekeepers back home who are my customers by pu
Gales knife slit his throat before he knew what had happened. Momentarily, Id felt a pang 
butchering. Even with the money divided in two, neither Gale nor I had held so much at one
eye. Theres an old man who keeps a small herd of goats on the other side of the Seam. I do
shoulder and infection had set in. It was bad, the Goat Man had to hold her up to milk her
her, said Rooba. As she marched off, I caught her wink. The Goat Man was mad, but he still
was there. Oh, no, Peeta. They work magic. That thing couldnt have died if it tried, I say
the story. Well, thats it. Only I remember that night, Prim insisted on sleeping with Lady
hold on. Some of you may already be declining my invitation. But this is no ordinary feast
name, I bet someone can find me. And then
Ill be dead for sure, he says. You wont get a hundred yards from here on that leg, I say. 
someone needs desperately is a good blanket. The soup is still nice and warm in its iron p
tongue. Theres no question, its sleep syrup. Its a common medicine in District 12. Cheap, 
so furious Im about to throw Haymitchs last offering into the stream when it hits me. A fu
goes down. Just one more to go. Theyre sweet as syrup, he says, taking the last spoonful. 
21.
In the remaining hours before nightfall, I gather rocks and do my best to camouflage the o
Thats good, because Ill need to share that sleeping bag again tonight. Also, if I dont mak
right into the thick of things to get that backpack, the one with the number 12 on it that
watch on the big, clear screens, Theyll have privacy at home but support in the square. Pe
else will be of much use if I dont return, and even these would only prolong his life a sh
it. My hands are already stiff from cold, so I take Rues spare pair of socks, cut holes fo
Gale, I think. If only you had my back now . . . I move as fast as I dare. The glasses are
strength or deadliness or cunning. Do they suppose, I wonder, that I have Peeta with me? I
cloth rises into the arena. On the table sit four backpacks, two large black ones with the
situation, and shes got hers. Shes got us trapped, too, because no one wants to chase her 
the next arrow automatically, as only someone who has hunted for years can do. Im at the t
the top of my lungs. Peeta! Clove jams her fist into my windpipe, very
effectively cutting off my voice. But her heads whipping from side to side, and I know for
grabs the hair on the top of my head, forcing me back to the ground. I think . . . She alm
seeing him like that, towering over me, holding Clove like a rag doll. I remember him as b
Clove around and flings her onto the ground. When he shouts, I jump, never having heard hi
chest, the low moan escaping her lips. When Thresh whirls around on me, the rock raised, I
wins, hell have to go back and face a district that has already broken all the rules to th
area Ive never seen. Cato kneels beside Clove, spear in hand, begging her to stay with him
has Catos backpack containing the thing he needs desperately. If I had to bet, Cato headed
22.
The sound of rain drumming on the roof of our house gently pulls me toward consciousness. 
blankets, safe at home. Im vaguely aware that my head aches. Possibly I have the flu and t
my leg was gone. He
doesnt seem angry about my tricking him, drugging him, and running off to the feast. Maybe
Cato and Thresh, I say without thinking. Foxface will be in her den somewhere, and Clove .
me then, I say. Why did you, anyway? Why? You know why, Peeta says. I give my head a sligh
him, so we dont have to, says Peeta grimly. I dont want Cato to kill Thresh at all. I dont
Wake me if you need me to keep watch. Im good and rested, thanks to you and Haymitch. Besi
says Peeta. The bread they sent me from District Eleven was still warm, I say with a sigh.
rabid animals, and quicksand, Peeta says. There could be anything in there. I dont say so 
certainly did. Its not that Peetas soft exactly, and hes proved hes not a coward. But ther
say evasively, although Haymitch never said anything of the kind. In fact, hes probably cu
dissatisfied with our performance. Probably the latter. Id be the first to admit were not 
either of us does is nap. Im not really sure how to ramp up the romance. The kiss last nig
happy and then confusion sweeps over me. Because were supposed to be making up this stuff,
behind my ear. Youre the one who wasnt paying attention. I am now, I say. Well, I dont hav
23.
Every cell in my body wants me to dig into the stew and cram it, handful by handful into m
regretfully. But I dont. We are quite sensible. We each have a roll, half an apple, and an
Victors Village, he says. Thats right. If we win, well each get a house in the part of tow
when the Games began, the Capitol had built a dozen fine houses in each district. Of cours
audience will enjoy our having fun at Haymitchs expense. He has been around so long, hes p
a degree of curiosity. How do you think he did it? Who? Did what? Peeta asks. Haymitch. Ho
Im wondering if Haymitch sobered up long enough to help Peeta and me because he thought we
put up an argument. While Im dishing up two more small servings of lamb stew and rice, we 
shrug and cup my elbows in my hands, hugging them close to my body. I have to bury the rea
Good, says Peeta. The more wounded Cato is the better. I wonder how Foxface is making out.
the Cornucopia and I didnt. Probably be easier to catch Cato than her. Maybe theyll catch 
practically everything we eat is stale, says Peeta, pulling the sleeping bag up around him
where the authenticity of everything is to be doubted. Four of us left. For the first time
To fame. To wealth. To my own house in the Victors Village. My mother and Prim would live 
Effie, watch this! says Peeta. He tosses his fork over his shoulder and literally licks hi
outside our cave, our mood shifts to serious. Its as though for the last few days, shelter
it with Cato after us. The boulders diminish to rocks that eventually turn to pebbles, and
District 12. I think of Gale, with his velvet tread. Its eerie how little sound he makes, 
out great. You ended up dying in a mud bank. Thats what I want to say, but I cant. He did 
exchanged signals in a while. When my whistle receives no
response, I run. In no time, I find the pack, a neat pile of roots beside it. The sheet of
and I watched her die! I say. I turn away from him, go to the pack and open a fresh bottle
I can see the red glint of her hair in the sunlight. I should have known the moment I saw 
24.
It takes a while to
explain the situation to Peeta. How Foxface stole the food from the supply pile before I b
to be kind. And shes very clever, Peeta. Well, she was. Until you outfoxed her. Not on pur
now. I begin to gather branches and brush. Are you ready to face him? Peeta asks. Im ready
the woods to reach an area well just have to leave in the morning to hunt. But Peeta doesn
hike today and still way too underfed. I keep my bow loaded, both for Cato and any fish I 
think of his ridiculous reaction to finding the supplies blown up. The others were upset, 
dont think Peeta felt good about killing her, even if it was essential. I cant pretend Ill
greens, the rolls spread with the last bit of cheese. The only thing I leave in reserve is
may do my hair and braid it back wet. Im wondering if we might even be able to give our cl
leaves at our feet. Then without a word, we break apart and head for the lake. I dont care
us, we circle the Cornucopia to make sure its empty. Then obediently, as if following inst
For a while, I just close my eyes and listen, mesmerized by the beauty of the song. Then s
25.Muttations. No question about it. Ive never seen these mutts, but theyre no natural-bor
safest place, who am I to argue? Besides, even if I could make it to the trees, it would b
on. But after a day in the arena sun, the metal feels hot enough to blister my hands. Cato
human quality. Each has a thick coat, some with fur that is straight and sleek, others cur
eyes glowering at me are unlike any dog or wolf, any canine Ive ever seen. They are unmist
and Im having trouble holding the arrow in place. I have been waiting to fire, only too aw
up above the mutt line and Im just turning back to face Cato when Peetas jerked from my si
I dont do something quickly, hell die of asphyxiation and then Ill have lost him and Cato 
I cant understand how he can be surviving until I remember the body armor protecting him f
death scream of a mutt or the sound of metal on metal as the blade collides with the golde
attention to Peeta and discover his leg is bleeding as badly as ever. All our supplies, ou
our body heat inside my double layer of jackets, but the night is young. The temperature w
You know why, he says, and pulls me closer to him. And I do. No viewer could turn away fro
horn. Peeta begins to doze off now, and each time he does, I find myself yelling his name 
tourniquet back as tightly as my frozen fingers can manage. I rub my hands together, tryin
on the final kill? My brain is too muddled to be sure, but what else could be the reason f
winner may be allowed, he says. Good luck and may the odds be ever in your favor. Theres a
first anyway. He leans down and rips the bandage off his leg, eliminating the final barrie
Because if he dies, Ill never go home, not really. Ill spend the rest of my life in this a
whisper. He holds my gaze for a long moment then lets me go. I loosen the top of the pouch
26.
I spew the berries from my mouth, wiping my tongue with the end of my shirt to make sure n
still gripping the back of his jacket so tightly that when they take him away it tears lea
gloved, already prepped to operate, go into action. Peetas so pale and still on a silver t
child struggling against pneumonia and my mother and Prim, they wear that same look on the
something sharp and antiseptic. My right arm has several tubes that extend into the wall b
tentatively lift my left hand above the cover. Not only has it been scrubbed clean, the na
will allow, so nothing will seem secretive. Did Peeta make it? She gives me a nod, and as 
that the last one was close to thirty years ago. Home! Prim and my mother! Gale! Even the 
to try and escape the bed, being knocked out again. I seem to be in a strange, continual t
perfection, smooth and glowing. Not only are the scars from the arena gone, but those accu
superiority, especially when she knows this will be on tape, but I dont care. I run for th
lobby of the Training Center. The hospital then is far underground, even beneath the gym w
else is there to see us cross to the tribute elevator. Our footsteps echo in the emptiness
care of the shower settings for me, and they go to work on my hair, nails, and makeup when
Wait, dont forget the shoes. Venia helps me into a pair of flat leather sandals and I
turn to the mirror. I am still the girl on fire. The sheer fabric softly glows. Even the s
better, he answers carefully. Peeta? No, its not about Peeta. Its about the Capitol and th
compliment. But what? I say. Haymitchs eyes shift around my musty holding space, and he se
you showing them up in the arena. The one thing they cant stand is being laughed at and th
says Haymitch. Better take our places. He leads me to the metal circle. This is your night
the Hunger Games are their weapon and you are not supposed to be able to defeat it. So now
Or what I did because I cared about him. These are questions to be unraveled back home, in
27.
The anthem booms in my ears, and then I hear Caesar Flickerman greeting the audience. Does
than I need to be now. Right now. Because I can feel the plate lifting me up to the stage.
to Peeta that Im practically on his lap, but one look from Haymitch tells me it isnt enoug
Peetas shoulder. His arm goes around me automatically, and I feel like Im back in the cave
chests. Most just seem stunned. All I know is that the only thing keeping me on this love 
Now I see what the audience saw, how he misled the Careers about me, stayed awake the enti
Something inside me shuts down and Im too numb to feel anything. Its like watching complet
feel it happens to people I have never met. And then comes the moment with the berries. I 
to the presidents mansion for the Victory Banquet, where we have very little time to eat a
determined to see Peeta privately. After I toss and turn for a few hours, I slip into the 
then decide to go directly to his room, but when I try to turn the knob, I find my own bed
event. No live audience at least. Caesar Flickerman gives me a warm hug when I. Come in. C
presents itself. He and Peeta already have the rapport they established
that night of the first interview, that easy banter, so I just smile a lot and try to spea
Because for the first time . . . There was a chance I could keep him, I say. Behind a came
me so I just bury my face in Peetas shirt. It takes them a couple of minutes to coax me ba
a long pause before I answer, trying to collect my thoughts. This is the crucial moment wh
Someone returned it to my room after the Games. They drive us through the streets in a car
When the train makes a brief stop for fuel, were allowed to go outside for some fresh air.
the train, out where even Im fairly sure there are no cameras hidden in the scrubby bushes
We should be okay. I watch him head back to the train, avoiding Peetas eyes. Whats he mean
Already the boy with the bread is slipping away from me. I take his hand, holding on tight
END OF BOOK ONE
