The Hunger Games
The Hunger Games 1by Suzanne Collins
PART I"THE TRIBUTES"
1.
When I wake up, the other side of the bed is cold. My fingers stretch out, seeki
they tell me. Sitting at Prims knees, guarding her, is the worlds ugliest cat. M
usually safe to touch. Even so, I always take a moment to listen carefully for t
been loose for years. There are several other weak spots in the fence, but this 
muscles in my face relaxing, my pace quickening as I climb the hills to our plac
overlooking a valley. A thicket of berry bushes protects it from unwanted eyes. 
caters to officials, Peacekeepers, and the occasional Seam customer. They ran an
try to forgive her for my fathers sake. But to be honest, Im not the forgiving t
twelve-year-old, and although he was only two years older, he already looked lik
and try to figure out how they will survive the painful weeks to come. We make o
a particular fondness for them and can afford our price. The mayors daughter, Ma
She puts the money for the berries in my hand. Good luck, Katniss. You, too, I s
reaping twenty times. Gale, who is eighteen and has been either helping or singl
pretty, he says flatly. At home, I find my mother and sister are ready to go. My
past are very precious to her. Of course. Lets put your hair up, too, she says. 
oldest in the front, the young ones, like Prim, toward the back. Family members 
given on their ages, whether theyre Seam or merchant, if they will break down an
The last tribute standing wins. Taking the kids from our districts, forcing them
the glass ball with the girls names. She reaches in, digs her hand deep into the
not me, that its not me. Effie Trinket crosses back to the podium, smoothes the 
2.
One time, when I was in a blind in a tree, waiting motionless for game to wander
District 12 hasnt had a volunteer in decades and the protocol has become rusty. 
sister, as he presented her, the oldest child, with a medal of valor. A medal fo
one can help loving. So instead of acknowledging applause, I stand there unmovin
camera. Is he addressing the audience or is he so drunk he might actually be tau
to continue, Haymitch plummets off the stage and knocks himself unconscious. Hes
for Gales safety when shes reading the name. Peeta Mellark. Peeta Mellark! Oh, n
killed in the mine accident three months earlier in the bitterest January anyone
chair or, more often, huddled under the blankets on her bed, eyes fixed on some 
Because if it had become known that my mother could no longer care for us, the d
lying in the Meadow, you hear the wails from a house, and the Peacekeepers are c
wanted those clothes. I couldnt go home. Because at home was my mother with her 
the edge of the woods after the coal had run out, my bands empty of any hope. I 
how sick she was of having those brats from the Seam pawing through her trash. T
Why not? No one decent will buy burned bread! He began to tear off chunks from t
toss them into the trough, and the front bakery bell rung and the mother disappe
but the insides were still warm. When I dropped them on the table, Prims hands r
away. I dropped my gaze, embarrassed, and thats when I saw it. The first dandeli
had thanked him at some point, Id be feeling less conflicted now. I thought abou
face the crowd as the anthem of Panem plays. Oh, well, I think. There will be tw
3.
The moment the anthem ends, we are taken into custody. I dont mean were handcuff
cameras at the train station. My sister and my mother come first. I reach out to
and trading, and staying in school, I turn to my mother and grip her arm, hard. 
who know twenty different ways to kill you with a knife. Oh, therell be people l
isnt around because hes so much nicer. I feel certain he would never have hit hi
have just said goodbye to his son. He pulls a white paper package from his jacke
or evasive, instead theres an urgency about her tone that surprises me. They let
year there were only horrible spiked maces that the tributes had to bludgeon one
players freeze to death at night. You could hardly see them because they were ju
practice, he says. You know how to kill. Not people, I say. How different can it
well for a girl, Johanna Mason, from District 7 a few years back. She seemed lik
was built in a place once called the Rockies. District 12 was in a region known 
Appalachia. Even hundreds of years ago, they mined coal here. Which is why our m
around it. The bird is connected to the ring only by its wing tips. I suddenly r
with multiple verses, if you had the patience to sing them and if they liked you
pause, theyd always sing back. Not everyone is treated with such respect. But wh
exhausting day, says Effie Trinket. I think shes relieved by Haymitchs absence, 
stomachs is used to such rich fare. But if I can hold down Greasy Saes concoctio
monstrous boy who lunges forward to volunteer from District 2. A fox-faced girl 
volunteer. You cant miss the desperation in my voice as I shove Prim behind me, 
Haymitch staggers into the compartment. I miss supper? he says in a slurred voic
4.
For a few moments, Peeta and I take in the scene of our mentor trying to rise ou
and turn the shower on him. He hardly notices. Its okay, Peeta says to me. Ill t
help feeling a little grateful since the last thing I want to do is strip down H
Not where were going. So I decide, from this moment on, to have as little as pos
made of old parchment and covered in ink drawings of plants. Neat handwritten bl
retrieved the small bow and arrows hed made me from a hollow tree. I probably di
gathered. Then she acted confused and went back to bed, but when the stew was do
father at my side, but people had respected him, and they accepted me. Game was 
That night, we feasted on fish and Katniss roots until we were all, for the firs
time in months, full. Slowly, my mother returned to us. She began to clean and c
the curtains when the rapping rouses me. I hear Effie Trinkets voice, calling me
womans head. What thoughts fill her waking hours? What dreams come to her at nig
back a glass of red juice that he keeps thinning with a clear liquid from a bott
either because theyre betting on them or simply for the bragging rights of picki
across the room. I was actually just hoping to get a good solid stick, but it lo
hands of your stylists. Youre not going to like what they do to you. But no matt
a rainbow of hues that tower into the air, the shiny cars that roll down the wid
his death. He is already fighting hard to stay alive. Which also means that kind
fighting hard to kill me.
5.
R-i-i-i-p! I grit my teeth as Venia, a woman with aqua hair and gold tattoos abo
and intensely vulnerable. But I have kept my side of the bargain with Haymitch, 
theyre sincerely trying to help me. I look at the cold white walls and floor and
eyeliner that has been applied with a light hand. It brings out the flecks of go
assembling this meal myself back home. Chickens are too expensive, but I could m
pudding, I cant even guess whats in it. Days of hunting and gathering for this o
and red and the matching headpiece that define this costume. Cinna plans to ligh
the Games begin. The tributes from District 1 ride out in a chariot pulled by sn
no time at all, we are approaching the door and I can see that between the overc
Katniss. The girl who was on fire. For the first time, I feel a flicker of hope 
down at our linked fingers as I loosen my grasp, but he regains his grip on me. 
for keeping hold of me. I was getting a little shaky there, says Peeta. It didnt
